One of the things to keep in mind, I'm
gonna change the backdrop for one moment.
I know we like the basketball, but
I'm gonna change it to make a point.
And we're gonna change it to this X,
Y grid.
This is how direction works in Scratch.
So your Scratch, Canvas,
Stage, what have you,
is 480, let's say, pixels, just 480.
Doesn't matter what it is,
480 wide and 360 tall, right?
And in the middle,
in the center, is location 0, 0.
So X is horizontal, Y is vertical.
So if you wanted to, right now,
you can see over here that
we are at x of 0 and y of 0.
If I made this 100, and we zoom back out,
you can see that he moved 100.
If I make this negative 100,
it's the other direction.
So negative is to the left, positive
is to the right, 0, 0 is the center.
The same is true of the y, which is up and
down, so 100y, it goes up 100.
0 in the center, -100 is down.
So for instance, if we wanna have some
idea of gravity, we want them to go down,
so negative numbers, and
then positive numbers are up.
We've got 180, so each direction.
So 180 positive, 180 negative,
cuz that times 2 is 360.
Yay, math.
And then 240 in each direction
gives you the 480, all right?
And so just understanding how direction
works, if you needed to go diagonal,
then you'd have to do up 100x, up 100y.
So, we'll show how to use some of
the movement blocks in one second.
Actually, let's put this back at 0,
0, and I'll show you.
We could do something like-
Throw the green flag in here,
zoom in just a little bit.
When the green flag is clicked,
we can say, for
instance, go to, 100,
100, and then Arnold goes up 100,
and to the right 100.
If we wanted him to go backwards, we could
say, positive 100, but negative on the X.
And so he's gonna end up in
that other corner, right?
The other thing to kind
of keep in mind is,
Arnold is facing the direction right now.
If you look down here, if you know
degrees and angles, it's great,
if you don't, you can just twist
this thing, and there he goes.
I could do that all day, and I won't
because there's people watching me.
Right now he's facing, 91 degrees.
There we go, 90.
And so move, in this case, there's a move.
Where is it?
Move 10 steps will be,
move 10 in whatever way Arnold is facing.
So right now he's facing right.
So if I say go to -100,
x negative 100, y positive 100.
We'll go there, and
then he will move 10 steps.
We got the basics of movement in place.
So you have a bunch of different options.
You can also say this is when
the green flag is clicked.
Like I said before, you've got
these options for different keys.
So for instance, we could say, hey,
when the green flag is clicked,
we're gonna go to that initial position.
And then every time they hit
the right arrow, that's gonna be-
When we move our character, right?
Green flag, he goes back, right?
So whenever these events happen,
those pieces of code underneath
the big yellow hat block will go ahead and
execute.
So this is whenever the green flag is
clicked, moving back to restarted.
Whenever the right arrow key is pressed,
we'll move ten steps.
Start and move.
I'm gonna give you a second,
I'm gonna pause, and
your job is to make Arnold
go the other way, right?
Cuz right now,
he will run face first into the wall, and
that's not gonna, you know, now he's hurt.
Now his face is pressed
up against the wall.
I can keep it in the right arrow,
nothing happens.
So take a few minutes and let's try to
make him go left, just to kind of get
a feel for everything, and
get our sea legs, you know what I mean?
Awesome, so our mission was, we got Arnold
going right, we wanna make him go left.
And so let's find a bunch of ways that
this will technically do what we asked it
to do, but possibly not in the way
that we intended it to do it, right?
Because like I said,
they'll do what you want for now, but
generally speaking, maybe not always
the way that you wanted it to happen.
I think there's a life lesson in there,
somewhere.
So we'll say left arrow, and we will say,
we'll go move negative 10 steps, right?
Cuz that should be our
understanding of X and Y.
So negative will hit the green arrow.
All right, he goes right.
He moves left, but
this leaves something to be desired.
It looks like he's moonwalking, right?
Ideally, most of us do not walk backwards
when we go in the other direction most
of the time, we tend to turn around.
Otherwise there's great
risk to bodily injury.
So we knew that we had direction before.
So theoretically, I should be able to set
a direction if he turns around, right?
So let's do that.
And so we'll say point in direction.
And if you don't remember the numbers,
if you just click on the number in
a direction block, you can go ahead and
you can turn it, right?
So now, Arnold should turn the other
way if and when we hit the left arrow.
Everything's gonna go great.
He walks right, haven't go left.
Well, okay,
first of all it looks like now,
we need to move positive ten, but
that's not our biggest problem.
So let's change that to a positive ten.
What's the problem with Arnold right now?
Can anyone- [LAUGH]
>> He's standing on the roof, or on his
head, it's unclear at this moment, cuz he
lives in a grid of emptiness and sadness.
But that is probably not what we wanted,
and also, I'm hitting the right arrow now.
You can see that the yellow
code is flashing.
So it looks like I also need to put him
back, but we've got bigger problems.
The act of putting him back is not
gonna solve all my issues, but
let's at least get that in place.
We'll drag them in there.
We'll hit the green flag to put him back.
Everything's great,
everything's in topsy turvy world.
There's an easy way to fix this,
which is, if we go and
we have the direction, you can see
there's a bunch of different ways.
There's like, yo,
don't let him turn it all.
There's also left, right.
And so now if we set it to left right,
we hit the green arrow.
He goes this way, he goes this way,
he goes this way, he goes this way,
everything is better.
One of the things that you will commonly
see in a Scratch project though is,
people can change stuff, right?
And so a lot of times when the green flag
is clicked is a great time to set up your
game again, right?
And so, for instance, that's when we
put them at negative 100, positive 100.
We can also say,
set rotation style, left, or right?
One of the things I
wanna point out too is,
for a lot of these things which
makes the setup a lot easier.
Notice I just moved him to
apparently 34 Negative 13,
it's important, but
if you actually look at-
You look at the blocks now that,
the default there is 34, -13, 34, -14.
A lot of these will be set
to wherever he currently is.
So a lot of times,
you don't necessarily need to remember.
You're gonna put Arnold the way
you want him to be, and
n the way you want him to be in
the way that you want them to be, or
any Sprite really.
And then all of these movement ones,
the defaults, now you can change it to
whatever you want, but by default, they'll
be wherever the Sprite is right now.
So, out of the box, we'll say,
when the green flag is clicked and
gotta set up our project, we will set
the rotations of the left and right,
we'll move them to where
they are supposed to go.
So we have a little bit of confidence
that everything will behave
as it's supposed to.
The only thing that I would probably
change about this at this point would be,
it'd be nice if the legs moved.
You know?
So we can do that too.
This is under Looks,
where we've got a whole bunch of options.
You can make them say stuff,
that is the visual say stuff,
because as you know,
the one after that doesn't exist.
That will, like, say, we'll just go
there forever, or you have it wait for
like two seconds.
You can also switch to a particular
costume, but in this case, what
we're gonna do is just switch to the next
costume, cuz there are only two, right?
One foot forward, the other foot forward.
So if we just switch,
rotate to the next costume every time,
we should be able to kind of
create a walking movement.
And we've got a little
bit of animation now.
If you wanted to,
if you're making your own Sprite,
you might choose to have more than two,
right?
There might like the more
you have in between,
the more fluid the motion is going to be.
And for a lot of these things, we need to
do what's called play testing, which is,
yeah, it's great.
Which is, you have to play your game,
which makes this workshop very hard to
prepare for because I don't want to
tell you how long I played Snake.
It's not important, I had a high score.
And so now he moves,
you can add more movements.
Like I said, I'm gonna leave.
There'll be one or two times when
we make our own Sprites today, but
I know that I will spend
several hours tweaking them,
and they'll each become more
horrifying than the last.
So, a lot of times we'll
use bulk ones in there,
but you can play without that
in between things as well.
And so
now we've got the ability to move around.